All right, one more concept we have to
introduce before we talk about a couple
more utility types here, and
they are mapping modifiers.
So here's where I want you to
look right before the colon, so
here we've got ?: here we've
got- question mark colon.
Here we've got sorry, this one's
not in the same place, read only.
So what this lets us do just if we think
about array.map, return, we're going
through a for loop, we're defining
each key value pair, key type pair.
Here we're saying okay, as we're defining
those key type pairs, make this read only,
make this a reader, sorry, make this
optional, make this an optional property.
So this is partial, this is a built-in
TypeScript utility type, where all we're
doing here is going through every
single key in T, or in key of T.
And we're saying, all right,
now an optional field exists
on the resultant type, but
it has the same value type, it just
could be missing if you want partial.
A lot of you have probably
used partial before.
Required does the opposite,
anything that was optional,
the optionality is removed,
that's what minus question mark does.
And then finally read
only adds read only's
as it goes through each key type pair.
Those are mapping modifiers those
are the only ones that exist today.
There's one more type we could create
You could technically do this,
this does not come with TypeScript.
This would take a read only object and
make it not read only,
this made me think of just for fun.
Made me think of this, so
around the holidays in the United States,
hardware stores have to put
a sign up like this that says
we don't make mail to
mail extension cords.
Because you'll set yourself on fire,
they will make your house below circuit,
so in the spirit of that, don't make this.
Read only this is there to help you and
I think There's a good
reason this doesn't exist.
This would sort of strip away
things that are helpfully there and
valuable intent that some
developers left for you there.
All right, this is a related topic,
this is actually much simpler than some
of the stuff we've talked about, but
it fits really nicely with mapped types.
Because using template literal types,
which effectively are the type version
of string templates where you could say,
I have some hard coded thing.
And then I have a string variable that I
wanna drop into the middle of the template
string, these are types here.
So what we can do, and it's like
identical syntax for the most part,
we've got art features,
which is cabin tree and sunset.
And then we've got colors, and
we can use this syntax here it looks
just like a backtick template string.
But remember, this is on
the right side of the equal sign
when defining a type alias here.
Look at what we get.
Paint_darkSienna_cabin,
paint_darkSienna_tree,
paint_darkSienna_sunset.
We're kind of taking every combination
of these two union types and
putting them together, and
just as it's the case with some other
places where you put a union type
in this kind of a type parameter.
You end up sort of one by one,
taking all combinations of those things,
and then them unioning them
all together at the end, and
that's the resultant type that you get.
There are a couple little modifiers that
you can add to this I'm not gonna talk
about them exhaustively, but
these are utility types like capitalize.
There's also, I think,
lowercase or title case, but
what this would let you do is, you can see
we don't have the underscores anymore,
it'll take a lowercase string literal,
capitalize the first letter.
Some of these are useful if you wanted
to make getters and setters for,
a particular set of literal types.
Agalas, I'm not sure he said can you
also use a regex in type equals?
I think I understand what
you're getting at here.
You cannot use a regular expression here,
it's almost like backtick
strings where you can drop variables,
and it's the same syntax, right?
Dollar sign and open brace, and
you put something here TypeScript
doesn't understand or
can't expand regular expressions,
that's why we have this extends keyword,
right?
There's a lot of dynamic behavior
that you can kind of put, or
a lot of complicated behavior you
can put in regular expressions,
which would make the type
system super slow.
Let's look at a little more, Of an example
of using template literal types.
So here we have an interface,
we're calling it data state just
imagine this is some properties
that you're holding somewhere.
And you could build a type for
an SDK on top of that
using a mapped type,
an indexed access type, and
a template,
like a string literal type here.
So let's take a look at it, so, first
of all, the mapped type is really this,
it looks like an index signature
to this whole thing, right?
So we have a property name k
which that's what's looping over,
that's the key that's changing every
time we evaluate a new property,
what are we iterating over?
Key of data state, but
what we've done is we're
saying key of data state as set,
capitalize K.
And so it's almost like we're saying,
iterate over all the keys.
And transform each key,
add the word set at the beginning of it,
and then capitalize key k, right?
Capitalize k, and then for the arg we're
using an indexed access type right,
this is the indexed access type
right there in the square brackets.
And what do we get, they'd SDK set digits,
set flags, that's coming from digits and
flags, there's also a set
names here in all likelihood.
There's copilot knows it's true,
set names,
so you could take an object make
a bunch of getters and setters.
Something like that, and
it can be done programmatically here,
which is pretty nice.
Data layers sometimes do this
where you'll have property,
you'll have setters that are based
on a field that already exists.
We can use infer In a conditional type to
extract type params from string types.
So check this out, I've got course
website is Frontend Masters,
because it's a const declaration,
that is a string literal type,
it's not just any string,
it's the string Frontend Masters.
And we're gonna create a new type
here called ExtractMasterName,
and we're gonna say, okay,
it's got this type parameter S.
If S is a subtype of whatever this is,
let's look at what that is,
It's a string that has
a space in the word masters,
and we're using infer here.
So we're gonna capture whatever is
before the space in a new type perm.
We'll evaluate that to t, we'll spit
out the t if we're able to match
the condition and extract,
otherwise will evaluate to never, and
look at that we're able to get
front end out of front end masters.
We've got little bit of string
manipulation happening in the type
system here.
You could take this one step further and
you could say,
infer T extends Right?
Extends a word beginning with F,
so this will continue to work, but
as soon as I'm saying,
It's gotta start with a B,
well now it's a never,
didn't begin with an F.